In this video of openclaw, we are going
to be talking about how you can work
with openclaws AI agent AI agent skills,
memory and chron jobs of openclaw. This
is one of the most important
foundational concepts that we need to
understand in order to tame openclaw our
truly personal AI assistant. In our
earlier video, we already discussed
about how you can install openclaw from
the complete groundup and also we
discussed how you can configure openclaw
with the telegram and how you can
establish a connection and communicate
with openclaw along with the local large
language model which is the lama. We
already discussed about it and we have
already done everything successfully in
our earlier video. And in this video,
we're going to go a level further and
understand the more important core
concepts of OpenClaw so that we can make
our AI assistant a truly personal AI
assistant. And these are the
foundational building blocks that you
need to understand. So that's what we're
going to be discussing in this
particular video. So let's get started
with it and understand how things work.
[music]
So first thing first, I'm going to be
starting off with the insulation of the
open claw itself. And I have did a basic
insulation over here already. So it is
it is doing fine right now. So I'm going
to be stopping it. So as you can see
over here uh it is going to create this
uh openclaw folder for us. And you might
have realized that this is going to be
the folder which is going to have all
the details for you in the open cloud
there. And you can see that now now the
openclaw is there. So I'm going to be
creating the sessions. I'm going to be
restarting the gateway service. So these
are the things that we have already
discussed. That's the reason why I'm
really not going to go very deep into
that right now. Uh it's going to take
some time. So I'm going to just stop it
because I already have gateways and
everything uh there. But still you can
do a open claw of config command if you
have worked on it before. You can see
that you can do one more installation or
maybe if you want to change the models
and things you can do it from the open
claw config command. You can see that
you can select the local and you can
create the workspace if it doesn't exist
uh in your folder. I think it is uh it
is there right now the workspace folder
as you can see over here once I selected
it. And then you can also choose the
model that you're working with. So you
can choose the model from here or you
can use the Olama over here. I'm going
to be using the Olama as well even in
this video. But I'm going to be using
the Olama cloud models instead of
running it in my local machine this
time. That is the only difference from
my earlier video with this video. The
reason why I'm doing it is because this
entire open claw is running on an ibuntu
machine which is actually running in my
parallels desktop of Mac operating
system as you can see over here. So this
is like a virtual machine which is
running on the top of my Mac operating
system. So essentially this is just a
virtual machine. So I don't really want
to overblot my machine with a lot of
resources and it's not really going to
handle the ammo with the local large
language model as well. So that's the
reason why I'm not going to do it and
I'm going to use the Olas cloud model
this time. Well, as I said, I'm going to
hit this thing continue over here and we
have done all the configuration in the
next tab over there. I'm going to start
off with Olama there. And the moment I'm
going to hit Lama, you see that in my
home folder, I don't really have any uh
any lama there, which is which means
that the Olama is going to be starting
off from the scratch right now. And the
moment I'm going to hit enter, you can
see that it is going to tell me which
model that you're going to be connecting
with. And the good thing is you see that
the latest version of Olama if you have
installed it, it's also going to tell
you launch open claw there. This is
amazing because now you can configure
even your open claw with this lama
there. So I'm going to hit launch over
there. And the moment I do it, see that
we have got a new folder created which
means now we are talking right. So let's
do with whatever it is doing. And I'm
going to choose the recommended model
which is the Kimmy K2.5
cloud model. And this is an amazing
model. I've seen its performance. It's
quite amazing. So I'm going to go with
that one. And just for a note here, the
Olama cloud is going to be a paid
versions model. But the good thing is
for the free version, you still have got
some SK so that you can try it out and
see how things work. But again, it's not
going to be like a reliably available
for you all the time. You have to either
pay for them for that. But the reason
why I really wanted to show you this one
is because you can use any provider. You
can use the anthropic or even uh copilot
or any other uh models. But I'm just
using this one just for the initial
setup to show you that you also have an
option to work with the cloud models.
Well, as that said, I'm going to hit
press enter there. And you can see that
now the Olama says that I'm going to go
and modify your ola open claw
openclaw.json file which is somewhere
sitting inside this particular folder
called as openclaw.js file. So I'm going
to say okay just go ahead and proceed
with that. And now you see that it is
going to launch the openclaw with kim uh
k2.5 cloud model. Oh yeah look at that.
So it says that open claw has been
configured with and the gateway is
already running which is great. So now
if I'm going to go to my browser over
here and if I'm going to go to the local
host over here, voila, we have got our
open CL up and running. The installation
part as I told you again we already have
it done it in our earlier video more
step by step. So please go ahead and
watch there. It has got all the details.
Pretty cool. So now you can see that I
don't really have a gateway token which
is currently connecting because this is
a old gateway token that I had which I
have completely removed as well. So I
need to somehow connect with the correct
gateway token over here. That is the
only thing that I have to do. So what
I'm going to do it is I'm first going to
see what is my gateway token in first
place. So I'm going to do a code and I'm
going to go connect with my open claw uh
and then I'm going to hit enter. So it's
going to open this particular directory
uh in the uh in the visual studio code
over here. And if I'm going to go to the
open claw over here, you see that now
the uh the gateway has got a token over
here. So this is the token that I need
to be essentially using it uh which I
have not configured it correctly. So I'm
going to copy this particular gateway
token. And note that we also have got
the model over here which is the Olama
Kimmy K2.5 cloud model. See all of these
cloud setup is done directly from the
Olama. time is way more simpler and
easier than what we actually discussed
in our earlier video where I was copy
pasting the model configuration for you
if you remember. So that is somehow
something is taken care over here and
you see that there is a model provider
which says this is the Olama
configuration and this is the model that
we are using. Cool. So now I have copied
the uh the actual gateway token. So I'm
going to go paste this and if I'm going
to connect it you see that the status is
okay which means the setup is done. Next
up, we are going to be talking about the
AI agents and how they are configured.
[music]
All right, when it comes to the AI
agents, you can see that OpenCloud has
got a lot of different ways to set up
the AI agents. And one of the way that
they have set up over here uh is uh the
agent which are sitting as a files as
you can see over here. So by default you
can see that we have going to got a main
agent but you can configure multiple
agents as well. I know the documentation
of the open claw itself is bit clunky
and you can't really understand what
they're really talking about if you're
nontechnical but if you are technical
you know what they are really talking
about but for a nontechnical person I'm
just going to give you an idea what
these agents are really doing. See
currently there is a there is just only
one agent. It's not a multi- aent setup
or whatsoever. But this agent has got a
lot of files. For instance, there is an
agent file which says uh I'm a file and
uh I am going to first run the
bootstrap.md file and if this thing
exists then this is a birth certificate
and it is going to launch some initial
setup for you. So what is this
bootstrap.md? If just going to go here
see that there is another file and if
I'm going to open this it says that you
just woke up time to figure out who you
are. See it's pretty much like you are
born to the world and then you are just
asking yourself who you are. So there is
no memory yet. There is no fresh
workspace. So it's a normal that the
memory file don't exist until you
created one. So at this point of time
you don't even have a memory because it
is a fresh instance of an AI agent which
is your personal AI agent and this is
completely fresh this time. What you're
going to be doing right now is the
moment you're going to be starting to
interact with OpenCloud all these things
will start setting up. Even there is a
soul.md file pretty much like a human
being right it says you are not a
chatbot you are becoming someone that's
really big way of saying it but anyways
you see that the core truth is be
genuinely helpful not uh performatively
helpful uh and these are the things that
you're going to be doing and there is
also something called as tool MD file
this is the tool which are going to be
useful for you in due course of time for
instance your agent will start accessing
some of the SSH file uh SSH connection
that you're going to make in uh for
other computers later on and some of the
connect connections that you're going to
make with the playright MCP server or
Selenium MCP servers or maybe some other
MCP servers. So you're going to do that
connectivity or maybe you are using the
MC porter later on which we'll be
discussing in this particular video
anyways. So all those tool
connectivities are going to be sitting
in this tools.mmd file and there is also
an identity.md file which is essentially
going to tell who am I which means who
this guy this this open claw is all
about. So this file will be
automatically updated once you start
interacting with it. So I will show you
how this really works and there is an
user.md file which really names what it
is and also there is a heartbeat which
is going to keep track of how this uh
this agent is really running. So let's
see what these files are going to be
updated with the moment we are going to
start interacting with our open claw. I
know this is a lot of detail to digest
but it's going to be easier once we
start seeing as a live demo and then you
will get used to it the moment we are
going to be start to using it this one.
All right. Well as that said I'm going
to start interacting with the openclaw
chats. So in order to work with the
openclaw chat I'm just going to say hi.
The moment I'm going to say hi over
here. What are going to happen is now
the agent is going to come to life and
you're going to say hi. I just came
online. Who am I? Uh who are you? I look
like a fresh workspace. No memory file
yet. Want to figure me want to help me
figure out who I should be. See this is
the bootstrap message which has been
invoked. So the AI agent is just a
collection of MD file or markdown files.
Now they are invoking the other files.
That's how this is really working behind
the scene. So I'm going to say I'm going
to call you as Jack and you call me as
Karthik. So simple. And the moment I'm
going to say this say perfect nice to
meet you Karthik. I am Jack. Let me
write down so I remember. So it it now
start to remembers as well. And I'm
going to say what is
the weather look like in Oakuckland uh
right now. And if I'm going to ask this
question because OpenClaw also have got
access to uh the browsers capabilities
as well as the internet capabilities. It
can go and access some informations as
well because it also has got the model
connectivity as well. So it can get you
some information there. And look at
that. Now it's going to give you pretty
nice out there in Oakland. It is 22°
centiggrade which is great. Not uh bad
for an evening. Cool. So we have got all
these things set up. And now if I'm
going to go to the agent and if I'm
going to go to the identity and if I'm
going to refresh this identity a bit,
you should see that this time the
identity.md has changed that it says the
name is Jack and the creator is AI
assistant and the emoji it has just
chosen at fire fox there. Cool. Look at
that. That's that's all changing, right?
This is all happening because we have
started interacting with the agent. Due
course, these things will start changing
and there is no memory yet. And I'm
going to show you how the AI agents
memory works.
So memory, when it comes to memory,
there are two types of memory. One is
the long-term memory. Another one is the
daily conversational memory. You can
store the memory in an static MD file
which is going to be in this agent
itself which is this one which is going
to be resurrected once I start talking
with it. But there is also a way people
are doing it in online where the people
store these memory in a notion notebooks
as well. That is amazing because that
way you can store all the conversation
in notion which is also clouds synced as
well and you can retrieve the memory
even if you are going to be deleting
this open CL and you're going to putting
it in other machine maybe Mac mini or
some other powerful machine later on. So
you just bring all the memory in there
instead of just copy pasting these
files. So that is another way of people
doing it. They're also building some UIs
to maintain the memories as well which
is even pretty daunting to see. But
anyways I'm going to show you the memory
really. So I'm going to say can you
store all the conversations
in memory uh for long time. So I'm just
going to say this because I know what's
really happening behind the scene. But
anyways, I'm just saying as if like a
human being there that I really wanted
all of these to be saved. And the moment
I'm going to do this, I'm going to say I
can help you with that. Let me explain
how the memory works here. And then so
it's doing something behind the scene.
And it says that there we go. There are
two tier system as I told you right. One
is the daily log. Another one is the
long-term memory. So daily log is going
to be the thing which is going to be the
raw nodes of what we talked about every
single day. And the long-term memory is
going to be sitting on the memory MD
file. That's a markdown file that we
have got and it has got all of these
informations over there. See even the AI
agent is just giving me all the
information which is pretty amazing. And
now if I'm going to go back to the agent
uh and you know what if I'm going to
refresh what's going to happen? So this
is really not working. So if I'm going
to just do a refresh over here and go go
to the file u we should see a memory md
file uh been coming up but for some
reason this is not really coming and
maybe refreshing it again. H this is
some somehow this is happening but I you
know what if I'm going to go to the uh
VS code uh and if I'm going to see if
there is a memory uh MD file for some
reason it is not there so which means it
it has not saved in the MD file the
memory md file yet okay so it looks like
I'm going to say yes uh do that for me
and uh start storing them all I think
What I have did is like I have really
not started I have not told the system
to do it because it just gave me the
explanation of what these memories are
and because I have not told that yet it
has not started saving this conversation
in the memory yet but now it is going to
say perfect let me set up the full
memory system for the interaction. So so
what has really gone is that at the
moment there is no memory being saved
but the moment I'm going to say yes
start storing things for me in the
memory now this time it is really
talking. See the memory is up and
running. It's in the memory.mmd file and
there is also a memory uh folder which
has got this daily conversation sitting
in as well. So if I'm going to go to the
agent this time and if I'm going to
refresh this time. Oh there we go. We
have got the memory.md file created this
time and as I told you we also have got
a folder called as memory uh which is
going to have all the conversation that
we are doing. So uh I think it is
sitting in the uh where is exactly is
that? So it's s sitting under memory of
this one. So let's see where is the
folder really uh if I'm going to go to
the workspace. Yeah, look at that. There
is a memory and this is the date and
time uh it has put there. Cool. So
that's about the memory that we have
got. And the next thing that I'm going
to talk about is the AI agent skills.
This is super important.
>> [music]
>> So AI agent skills as it names is going
to empower your AI agent with quite some
skills. To be honest, there are some
built-in skills which are currently
being disabled as you can see over here.
But you know what? While the
installation of the open claw happens to
also ask you do you want to choose some
skills which we actually skipped
completely even our last video. But this
video I'm going to show you how you can
create your own skills and also how you
can actually uh use the existing skills
that they have. So there are skills
available in many different places these
days. One is the skills.sh.
Uh if you just go there, there is this
is the skill.sh which is very very
popular. People are using this for many
different operations. You can uh you can
do a lot of things over there. So one of
them is like let's say if you're going
to be working with the automation
testing with playright you can see there
is some playright skills this is the UI
automation skills that you can use it as
well and these skills essentially are
like a markdown file which is going to
have a set of instructions which is
going to give a perspective for your AI
agent like a procedural knowledge of how
to work with and there is also a skill
called as clawhub.ai and this is one
which is created by the openclaw team
itself or the creator itself. So you can
see that they have got a lot of skills
as well and you can browse the skills.
There are 10,322
during the time of recording. So I'm
sure even if you're going to refresh
this page tomorrow, it's going to be
10,700 or something like that. People
are just keep on putting skills a lot
and there are so many skills people are
downloading it uh and they are really
cool to be honest. And one skill that I
wanted to show you today is going to be
the GitHub skill which is this one. and
it's created by the author of open cloud
itself and this skill is very very
simple that's the reason why I'm
choosing this uh it's also easy for me
to demo so you see that this is the the
skill.mmd file and you can you can do
two ways you can either go and download
this zip file and start installing it or
you can also copy the skill.md file
because there is no python code or
anything like that available over here
so I can just even u you know copy that
one as well if I wanted to but two
things I can do either copy this entire
skills MD file from here or if you are
like the new person for the first time
using it just go ahead and download this
zip file uh and open this zip file uh
over here which is going to be this one.
I've already downloaded it. So uh I'm
going to copy this. So inside this zip
file you can see that we have got a
skill.md file. So this is the actual uh
maybe a structure that needs to be
followed while you work with a skill. So
skill needs to have a skill in capital
letter MD which refers the skill that
you have got. And if you open the skill
file, it's not really anything advanced
there. All it has is uh just a bunch of
text saying the name of the skill is
GitHub and the description is interact
with the GitHub using the GH CLI. Uh use
this GS uh use GH issue, GHPR, GH run,
GH API for all of these operation. And
these are the bunch of command that you
do like a pretty much like a like a like
a procedural details that you put so
that the AI agent can understand and
because open claw itself is an AI agent
in first place and it can really talk
with these skills in a very very easier
fashion and that's exactly what we're
going to be doing over here. So uh I'm
going to go to the uh GitHub over here.
I'm going to copy this skill. See what I
what I'm going to do it is very very
simple. You can install the skill. so
much easily in OpenCloud. Just go to the
OpenCloud folder here. I see some people
are creating some tool to install the
skill. You don't even need a tool for
that matter. It's so easy. All you have
to do is just go over here and then uh
just create uh in the in the in the in
the workspace uh just create a uh folder
uh or maybe you can even create it uh
under the open claw folder itself. uh
create a folder called as uh skills and
within the skills you can just paste
this GitHub skills over there. That's
it. The moment you do it uh now if
you're going to go to the open cloud
control uh this is the gateway over
there and go to the skills and just
search for GitHub. Uh am I getting it?
See this? Oh, look at that. We have got
a GitHub skill which is eligible right
now. So it is already there. You just
copy paste the GitHub skill and you
already have one. That's it. This is the
GitHub skill for you. And now you can
actually ask a bunch of question to this
particular AI agent which is the open
claw and it will start interacting with
you as if like it has the new skill that
it has got. For instance, if I'm going
to go to uh github.com/execute
automation of the uh playright MCP
server for that matters. This is the MCP
server that I have built uh for the
playright even before Microsoft really
built. So I'm just using the same player
MCP server over here. And if I'm going
to ask a question over here saying can
you tell me who built
uh this uh GitHub repo and if I'm going
to paste this thing over there it is
going to go and use the skill right now
and it is going to get the information
for you. So you look at that, it's going
to get you that EZ automation built it
and this is the GitHub repository blah
blah blah. So it's going to get that for
you, right? And it says logged uh which
is great. And now uh I'm going to say
the reason why it says logged is because
now it's storing everything in the
memory as well behind the scene which is
which is pretty amazing. And I'm going
to say, can you uh check if the
repository has any open uh issues or
PRs. So I'm going to just ask that over
there. So now it's going to use the gh
command of the GitHub command line to go
and bring all of these information for
you. So now look at that. Now this
question I have asked over here. So now
our agent the fox or the jack is
starting to work with uh for us and it's
going to use the skill that it is
configured with and it is starting to uh
get the information for that particular
repository that we have got. So we have
given that information there and look at
that it's bringing all the information.
So it's seeing that is there are six
open pull requests that is been oh it's
it's opened long time before and you can
see that there are some open issues as
well over here and it's getting all the
information for us. So all of these are
happening because we have got the skill
being configured there and that's the
reason why we are getting all of these
information which is amazing. So this is
how you can see that we can see the
power of the skills coming up over here.
I also say the conversations being
logged over here. So it's keep on
storing all the conversation uh in the
memory so that next time you're going to
be opening it, it's going to have all
these information uh in the memory as
well. So this is what is the first
installation of a skill. I'm going to
show you some more skill this time which
is a very very super simple skill that I
really wanted to show you which is
nothing but you can configure your own
daily digest as well. For instance, if I
want to do a daily digest of some of the
website and I wanted the uh open claw to
keep track of that and tell me every
single time, then I can also do that
over here which is nothing but I can ask
the open claw itself to create a skill
for some of the daily digest and tell me
uh every morning that uh what is the top
10 news uh that I have got for a
specific website. I have already built
it. Uh so I'm just going to use that one
directly over here. You might have seen
it while I was just going to the
downloads folder. There was a skill uh
skills folder or something like that
which is this one. And I have got a lot
of skills there. I'm going to show talk
about this test pride skill which is
going to automatically invoke and do
some automation testing wonders for you
and similarly the playright uh thing as
well. But for now you know what for now
I'm going to just uh take the daily
briefing skills over here. This daily
briefing skill is something which I have
created entirely with our open claw
itself. You see that this is the
skill.mmd file. It's going to generate a
daily AI news briefing by fetching top
news from hacker news which is o
combinator uh simon's williams blog mac
rumors neowind.net and it's also going
to get top 10 news from all these
website for me and it's going to show me
everything in a tabular format. So I'm
also going to schedule this in the chron
job as well in a minute. But there are
some scripts as well. It has written
like a python script to do all of these
operation because it's bit of a token
consuming process. I want to not use my
free tier Olama and make this thing
break. So I'm not going to do show how
that thing work. But I'm going to go to
the open claw and I'm going to go to the
skill. Paste that thing over here. And
the moment I have got a skill there. If
I'm going to go to the skill, you see
that we have got the daily AI briefing
coming up over here. Immediately the
skill is up there in our open clock
gateway dashboard. And now I can
actually go to the chat over here. And
of course I'm going to say can you get
me my daily uh briefing
uh over here. The moment I do it, it is
actually going to use that skill that we
have got and it is going to bring me all
this information. This is pretty cool
because now if you're working with the
telegram or slack or something like that
you can create your own custom skills
put it all there in the skills uh over
there. So it is going to take a bit of a
time and it is also going to be a time
consuming token consuming process. Uh so
look at that. So it's bringing me all
the information. So yeah look at that
pretty cool. So it has brought all the
uh top news for me over there. So 38
news has come through and see that
steering 8 billion language models
explained any token. So if I'm going to
go to the hacker news which is going to
be the news y combinator uh over there
something like this. So the first news
is uh the steering 8 billion 8 uh 8
billion language model token. So it's
it's ignoring all the nonI related
stuffs. It's just bringing the AI
related stuffs alone for me. That is the
important thing that I have told in the
skill as well. Don't bring me some
unnecessary additional news. I only want
the AI news. That's the reason why it's
just bringing me all the AI news over
here which is just amazing. So that's
the that's the way you can use the skill
to bring all these information and I
have actually created a lot of skills.
For instance, I can convert this
selenium code to playrite code. Also use
test sprite for do automation testing. I
am going to create a separate video for
that. Please let me know if you are very
much interested and put the details in
the comments below if you are looking
for any other tools that you want to see
uh and way of working with with
OpenCloud. But this is how you do this
for you over there. The last thing which
I want to do is it's it's asking me that
want me to set up this to run
automatically every morning. I'm going
to say yes do set uh for me by 900 a.m.
And while I do it now this news is going
to be sent me as a toast message in the
telegram if I have configured it. Uh and
I'm going to get daily briefing from our
open claw every single time by 9:00 a.m.
and I don't even have to go through all
these uh websites to see the link. I am
going to get all the news immediately
over there. So this is how you can see
that I'm going to get the information
and also you can see that it's been
chron jobbed which means it is also been
scheduled for me. So these are things
that you can see we can do using
openclaw and these are the things which
are very very important. So now we have
understood about how to work with
memories, how to work with AI agents,
how to work with skills and how you can
even install some other skills and how
you can create your own skills and even
schedule them with the cron jobs. As I
told you, you can use the agents uh
skill from the skills.sh file as well.
For instance, if you're going to be
using the playright skill, which is
going to be this one just I'm going to
show you immediately like how this is
going to work. Just copy this particular
command the npx skill add this
particular command. uh go to the
terminal and if I'm going to go paste
this particular command over here and
hit enter this is going to install the
skill for me in the in the agents folder
uh over there and I'm going to say
global and do a sim link and you see
that it has actually installed the
playright skill even in the open claw as
well see that the sim link of open claw
has been done which means it's also
installing that I'm going to say proceed
the installation and the installation is
complete
And now if I'm going to go to my
opencloud dashboard and skill, you
should see a playright skill as well. So
you can also install a playright skill
as well right from the skill.sh as well.
So these are things that you can do over
here. So hope you got the idea of
openclaw skills uh as well as the
agents, memories and cron jobs. These
are things that you need to know while
you wanted to tame openclaw your true
personal assistance. Once again thank
you so much for watching this video.
Catch you in the next one.